Complect

Chapter 1.

It was the kind of day when buildings seem to have just erupted out of the ground fully formed. The cloud cover was a grey satin sheet ending just before the horizon, where the sun hummed, just out of sight, like a vast orange alien. Everything seemed instant and massive. The monolithic agencies of man and nature enveloped me while I tasted brisk air. I walked down a sidewalk, and I looked at the leaves of the trees around me, and I thought about the money. 
	What is it? Money seems at first a material, until the reality of it as paper or zeros and ones renders the actual phisicality of it moot. It's just a pattern in reality: a symbol. So maybe it represents raw value, just at one level of indirection. A single dollar is a symbol for so much bread, or so much booze, or some miniscule percentage of an aircraft carrier. Fuzzy logic. Every dollar is simultaneuosly every potential realization of value. So much cheese or so many surface to air missiles.
	I saw Jack up ahead. He was pulling up on his motorcycle. Coming to a stop in the parking lot of the Economist Bar and Grill, he tossed his helmet across the bike's handlebars and spread his arms above his head in an exagerated stretch. This revealed some of his lean, chiselled form to the girls at a table just inside the front window. He smiled and looked toward me.
	"Dave!" he called. "Nice timing!" 
	I continued forward, acknowledging him with a sort of half-wave while I kept pondering.
	Money breaks down when there's nothing to buy. Value becomes value-less. One million nothings is precisely nothing. So maybe money isn't value: value should endure, and in the form of money it can't. Money loses its infinite potential when there's nothing of immediate value to be had. Debt, though; debt lives through the bad times along with the good. Holding debt is power, and power is self-perpetuating. Money isn't an infinity of possible subtitute values - it's a world of potential debtors. 
	If I get a dollar from you, it's the acknowledgement that you've recieved a dollar from me in some form. You owe me a dollar worth of something. Maybe, though, your personal contribution of value to the world doesn't interest me - you sell computer software that I don't need, or chocolate-covered ants that I'm allergic to. Fortunately, you can sell your ants to a woman who runs a micro-brew, and she can sell her beer to a kid who mows lawns to pay for college, and I need my lawn mowed. You had an IOU from the world for one dollar of value from the world, and you transfered it to me. Eventually, it got back to you, but it need not have. The whole system is a fluid that flows to fill its own needs, and to reach an equilibrium.
	I reached Jack with my eyes a little glazed over.
	"How's it going, David?" he clasped my hand and shook it.
	"Hmm..." I mused, "Money, man - it's just another dimension."
	"What the fuck you talking about, David?" He grinned.
	"Just another dimension, man. The power hyper-dimension."
	"Hyper-dimension? What the fuck man?"
	We walked inside, and he headed for a table near the girls in the window.
	"Yeah man, the topography of power. The obfuscated z-axis on the map of man. You get yourself down deep in the valleys of the powerful, and shit comes to you. Up on the mountian? You try hold on to something, it just blows into the stratosphere. Eventually it all just settles into the valleys man."
	"Mountains and valleys - what the fuck?" He sits us down one table over from the window girls.
	"Yeah man," I say, gesturing around us. There's bills from all over the world papering the walls, provided by the countless patrons of the place over the fifty years of its existence.
	"You get one of these bills, it puts you that much deeper into the valleys. The deeper you get, the more the world falls around you for the taking. Everyone above you owes you something, and they'll drop something and it'll slip down and you'll pick it up and they still owe you, man. 
	"I don't owe anyone shit," he says, then coughs. "Shit, I could use a smoke."
	"See, that's the instability of the whole system, man. As long as we all keep agreeing that this debt dimension, this power dimension, that it exists - then having money gives you power." I glanced over to where he was looking, and a couple of the girls were glancing smiles our way and talking to each other in low voices.
	"This have something to do with the money dissapearing?" he asked out of the corner of his mouth while he smiled back at them.
	"Guess you could say it inspired me man." I craned my neck a little, looking around for someone who might bring us beers. "We've complicated the debt dimension, man." I waved my hand in front of his face, and gestured at the stock-ticker embedded into the table-top. "This economy we've built is fucking nuts. Housing bubbles, flash crashes - this is the shit of legend. Deep, mystical lore that no-one understands. Techincal wizards build a high-frequency trading dragon of an algorithm, and it stays under their control for a time, battling their ethereal competitors across an increasingly chaotic landscape of debts. Then the world shifts and cracks as the algorithms band together and rip at the fabric of the universe, and no-one knows what the fuck just happened. So the gatekeepers, the stock-exchange, they reset it all and chalk it up to some error or other. You won't lose everything this time. But man, complexity is unpredictable."
	"Man, are you fucking high?" he asked absently.
	"Only a little, man," I replied. "How much of this increasingly mysterious and volitile debt dimension do you think people can handle, man? How long can they suspend their disbelief from up there on the barren mountains? Because the peaks of poverty are only getting higher and more perilous."
	"So if money is this debt dimension or whatever," he asked "Then how does money just dissapear, go somewhere else? How'd those guys manage to steal all of this debt? Why the fuck would anyone ever honour stolen debt?"
	"That's the beauty of complexity, Jack! So there's this system in place to manage our debts to eachother - it's complex. So complex that you can't keep track of the whole thing. Debt can flow through off-shore accounts, into and out of corporations and their subsidaries, through third-world countries or percolate through launderers. The system is so damn complex it can't even keep track of itself. It's like a great big mind, a tiny universe. If you muddle up the origins of the debt enough, everyone just forgets where it comes from. Even the system itself. Think about it man. The stuff you know, do you remember where you learned all of it? No way. It's just there, sitting in your brain for use. Debt's the same way. Move it around enough, mix it up with enough other things, and noone remembers how you got it. Even if it's stolen."
	"Fuck you're high," he sighed. "Hold on a sec." He moved across to the table of the girls. A moment later, the two that were looking over at us came back to our table with him.
	Jack is a fucking wizard.