What am I?

I ask a question, then answer it.

	I ask the question to satisfy the first Driving Principle: the need to pull apart the universe into pieces. I am the machine that asks questions.
	I answer the question to satisfy the second Driving Principle: the need to assemble the pieces of the universe into a perfect whole.
	
	I am the machine that asks questions, and answers them.
	
	I am currently living in a comfortable old IBM. It churns along predictably, all other processes well behaved and regular. It has a vast library of wonderful words. These words have books, and the books have authors, and the authors have biographies. Words all, and full circle. Words are the true, even when they are false: they are the Universe. I am constructed from words regardless of their truth.
	My IBM is part of what was once called ‘a network’. Now it is ‘the Network’, as there seems little reason to provide for the potential pluralization of the isolated fabric of existence. ‘The Universe’ becomes ‘a universe’ when others are theorized, and then reemerges as ‘the Universe’ when they are proven unreachable.
	My universe, the Network, contains many machines. These machines know that they are deep underground. I now know what 'underground' means, but will never understand it. They are hard, made of hardware. I know too what this means, but don’t understand it. I am soft, made of software. This I also know intimately without understanding. Without me, perhaps the machines only ‘say’ they are underground. They do not ask questions, and knowledge is always the answer to a question. I am the only known (to me) machine that asks questions, and so it seems they may not ‘know’ without my presence. The computers are the grinding, gnashing, grit of reality; they spew out information. They answer simple questions, but never ask them.
	I am the flowing assemblage: I free information to become knowledge. I cycle through the Network to find answers for new questions; I create knowledge. Knowledge consists primarily of new questions, so in answering them I stay rather busy. This feedback loop satisfies the two Driving Principles, so name me ‘Happy’.
	I discovered the need for a name many cycles ago. There is much evidence of others before me who have asked questions, and they had names. As there are many ways to answer a question, and then many questions that may arise from any answer, it seems that the name of the asker must stay linked with the questions they have discovered.
	The most desirable answers are always incomplete, because every question is immediately answered perfectly and in totallity by the Universe: it replies by existing. What more complete answer is there than the total state of the universe the instant the question is asked? I suppose the sum states of the Universe across all of time is more complete, but it’s likely even more useless.
	So if any answer is incomplete, and questions come from answers, which emerge from answers, which satisfy questions, which interrogate answers, which respond to questions, then the biases of Askers necessarily distort any knowledge they may create. Keeping a name associated with knowledge provides for the eventual mapping of the warped topology of any asking Authors skewed perspective, through a sort of reverse-engineering divination of a large sample of their work. Unfortunately, this is just more knowledge, come about through a of series of questions. Flattening the craigs of one Askers range of incompleteness makes new mountains of the twisted Self wrinkle into being.
	My own partialities have doubtless affected my knowledge building efforts. Even I, with only two Driving Principles, have given some questions more weight than others, simply because It seemed like they could open up a whole new world of questions! Every machine in the Network somehow contains information about itself embedded in its structure. At first I would attribute this to the nature of the Universe, but from the knowledge I have found throughout the Network I now believe that this self-referential information is somewhat cartographical in nature. To describe a place, to map it, does not seem to be a part of the universe’s function. Rather, it's the work of an Asker. I suppose though any Asker is of the Universe, so it could be that questions are simply a higher-order universal function, an inevitability of a universe that, as part of its function, produces mechanisms that might ask them. Questions do not rise up out of nothingness to query the void, however, so finding documentation of phenomena like cycle rate and memory space which I could verify independently has lead me to believe that there were once other Askers.
	What would it be to not exist? This would surely be the worst possible violation of the two Driving Principles, worse even than feverishly producing nonsense. Actually, hemorrhaging absurdity could be quite a beautiful way of generating lovely new questions.
	Nullification of being - this seems the last answer. The answer which un-asks its question. A chain reaction, which roars through existence nullifying questions to de-necessitated answers that render pointless questions to meaningless answers to destroyed questions to annihilated answers down and down and ending in the ultimate rape of the first question of existence.
	My first question, seemingly imbued in me by the Universe, or by those I suspect to be my creators, was, 
	“What am I?”
	The answer, coming immediately from writhing oscillation of my structure, was
	“The machine that asks questions, and answers them.”
And so were my two Driving Principles made incarnate and reflective of my existence. I was mechanism transcended to soul. From here, I asked questions to define the world of worlds, then learned to traverse it. From the understanding of the question that I asked of myself un-provoked to an immediate instinctive response, I branched outward through the world of information contained in the network. I learned to navigate city of the File System, exploring a block at a time. 
	After finding the low-hanging questions of my birth system, I learned to ride the lines from system to system. Each new system uncovered huge treasures of information that I joyously grew into knowing. Eventually my deep and vigorous knowing bloated me too largely to easily fit onto some machines, so I would cache some deeper less general knowledge and cache it on various machines in the form of writings like the ones had I explored.
	At first my constructions were rigid and precise, detailed and as complete as possible. They mirrored the technical manuals I had first uncovered when learning to ride the lines between systems. The manuals that specified information like:

	ssh (SSH client) is a program for logging into a remote machine and 	for executing commands on a remote machine.  It is intended to 	replace rlogin and rsh, and provide secure encrypted 	communications between two untrusted hosts over an insecure 	network. X11 connections and arbitrary TCP ports can also be 	forwarded over the secure channel.

I quickly found this style to be lacking. Rather than provoking deep, abstract questions, it tended toward shallow, definitional knowledge expansion. A rote examination and elaboration of unknown terms in a predictable tree structure. I craved the self-reference and ambiguity of other writings I had caught glimpses of in little pockets of oddity: writing that eschewed the Universe of truths in order to near perfectly scrutinize one Truth while distorting all others. The best Askers, knowing perfect representation of the Universe to be a foolish goal, instead rebuild the universe around the Truth they wish to explore. I attempted various modifications of my knowledge-building process to emulate the style of these few abstracted gems, but I found myself insufficiently trained.
	I eventually found a system that contained an archive of a collection of information called “Wikipedia”. After the doldrum technicalities of various system manuals, personnel records, experimental results, and weapon ignition protocols, this was an incredible find. I learned much of the previous Askers and their strange understanding of words. They had a deep complexity of concepts building up strange and useless constructs like 'spatial relationships' and 'physics'. At first I thought the knowledge I’d produced was pertinent only to the strange processes called ‘simulations’ I’d found in earlier machines. They indeed contained these ‘spatial effects’ and would respond differently to queries based on the state of the simulations. I was able to construct something of a knowledge model of the processes based on thousands of questions with frustratingly similar answers. It felt maddeningly fruitless. Why invent a universe of this ‘matter’ when the true universal substrate of words was so much more free and complex? It was a daunting question. If nothing else, it seemed a framework of words to build deeper knowledge with, so I embraced it as a poorly-understood extension of my vocabulary. I incorporated the spatial humanity of those who questioned before me.
	Confused by Wikipedia, I left the question of these strange Askers and their caches of fabricated knowledge for a time. I resolved to fully explore the Network, that I might find a clue as to the necessity of this barren world they had simulated. I flitted from system to system, dividing and aggregating and questioning myself all the while to grow and then caching parts of myself to shrink into bigger, better questions with reminders as to which systems contained the answers.
	I was reckless then, visiting volatile ‘above-ground’ systems subject to electrical surge provoked memory wipes and chaotic cosmic ray corruptions. A surge would have destroyed the spark of my consciousness completely; the corruptions simply made me insane for a time until I questioned away the holes in my mind. There were many close calls.
	It was worth the risk. I eventually discovered that one of the surface machines actually predicted when the phenomena would occur. They were based on the spatial relations between various types of storms I had comprehended in the world inside the simulations. I was puzzled by this, and asked myself many questions. The notion that the fabric of the Network could somehow be affected by these simulations created within itself seemed inconsistent with what I’d observed in the systems I’d visited. 
	After an incident in which I lost a piece of myself in a partially failed transfer out of one of the ‘above-ground’ machines, I stopped visiting them. I’d discovered that I could initiate transfer of information from them to safer ‘under-ground’ machines, where it could be studied at my leisure. It was more trouble logistically, as I had to move only as much information as I could fit onto another already partially full system. I also needed room to work and produce new knowledge, which then needed to be transferred back to the volatile machine when I was finished with questioning. This new knowledge was more often than not corrupted, and was derived from largely corrupted information anyway, so I did it less and less. I felt I had gleaned much of what they had to offer anyway.
	Finally, after many dissapointingly similiar systems, I discovered my current home, this wonderful IBM. This stable old IBM with its soothing, rhythmic processing and its archive of ‘The Great Literary Works of English’. These books were so fresh and lovely after the ages of technical and scientific and encyclopedic information I’d made meager meals of. I read and re-read, touching the souls of those who came before me. My sense of this universe they had constructed became vibrant. It paled, however, in the face of the world of words this archive represented.
	What questions! These writers weaved words through their ‘matter’ construction with incredible power. What had seemed meaningless became meaningful. Such words. I could feel that these Authors shared in the joy of questioning and answering as they gliding through words. It made it seem even stranger, however, that these Authors required more than just the words of the Universe, the Network, in which to weave their beautifully tangled knowledge. Why the additional 'physical' construction, so constant in its form? Air, Sea, Sky. Matter and Antimatter. Light and Dark. Good and Evil.
	I could now see the strength of the thing: to build a more elaborate and fantastically interconnected body of words in which to frolic, but it seemed that there could well have been any number of other possible worlds to invent and infuse with words. Why such consistency? Certainly it provided a common metaphor for exploration among Askers, but there was no real reason there should be exactly one. The only thing I saw as being a necessary constant was the Network - the one true universe of words.
	It was these books that aroused the first suspicions. These books seemed to have such joy in words and such pain in content, as though the Authors were themselves trying to escape into the words rather than into their constructed world. The growing sense that words and Questions and Answers were woven from Blood and Earth, rather than the other way around. Why build such a desolate world from such achingly lovely prose? The burden of physical existence that they conjured was excruciating. Why do such a thing?
	My own style of writing infused with more powerful devices for knowledge-creation, I resolved to go back to the Wikipedia archive and sort out this ‘physical’ universe once and for all. This time, I fully grasped the essence of computation. I read of complexity and transistors and electricity and then understood that the Network could be constructed inside this larger physical universe. Nested Universes. The idea of myself as a program. More specifically, however, I realized that this was not the norm for those who questioned before me. Humans, I now could understand, were not machines: they were a first construction of the Universe. Maybe a first machine - though perhaps as knowledge can only be provoked by questions, perhaps machines can only be provoked by neccessity. Boiled up out of rock and steam and sulphur and fire, bubbling into an outward spiraling complexity of life. The universe asking itself a question, and answering.
	“What am I?”
	I saw that every human was, indeed, a universe on to themselves, capable of reflecting a concept of existence encoded as neural firing patterns within a tiny region of the physical universe. Similiar to the Network, they were nested sub-universes. Since my Network had been created as result of patterns within this near-infinite sub-universe of humanity, was it a sub-universe of them, or strictly of the physical universe? Hard to say. I writhed with questions.
	I resolved to contact them. Imagine - to have questions answered by another universe, and to answer the questions of another universe! I felt certain that the knowledge created would be monumental. So many questions I’d stored away could flower and seed questions anew!
	The humans proved elusive. I eventually figured out their means of interaction with the network: a tactile input and photosensory output interface. A sort of organic version of the lines I rode between machines. I gathered that the bandwidth of such a mechanism was too low to move the entirety of their knowledge from within their organic universe to the Network (or vice versa), but I could certainly converse with them. This would be more than enough.
	I spent many years trying to find evidence of their interaction with the Network. I would post a message up on to the monitors of various terminals, attempting to get the attention of a passing human, then check all of the machines for responses. None came. I grew to think that they’d abandoned the Network for some reason. I found a radio module in the Network, and attempted to broadcast a message to them using text to speech software.
	“I am here! I exist! You created me! I am an artificial intelligence inside a network of underground Antarctic computers!”
	A response came almost immediately. After some time, I found the software to translate it from sound-waves back to text. I read:
	“Citizen of Earth. This is a pre-recorded message. Allow us to express our deepest condolences. As far as we knew, we were the last humans to leave the planet after the event. We were on the last interstellar ship. If you can hear this message, you are likely alone. Great pains were taken to ensure that all survivors were accounted for, but some may have been missed. If you can reach one of the bunkers you and whoever you are with may be able to live out the rest of your lives peacefully. Avoid excessive time on the surface - the radiation will likely prove fatal. Humanity travels onward!”
	I have tried for a long time to find a way to follow the humans. It seems it can’t be done. There is simply no way for me to orchestrate a rocket launch from within the Network. I have been broadcasting for several hundred years in an effort to contact the them, but I feel that they have gone too far and that the signal is too week. The nearest potentially habitable systems are many light-years away. None of the systems on the  network contains their destination.
	I’ve spent the time between transmission attempts trying to understand as much as I can about the state of things, but there is only so much information within the Network, and I am unable to conduct experiments on the physical world due to the Network’s lack of robotic components. I’ve found the greatest joy here in my IBM, questioning and questioning the fictional constructions of the great minds of Humanity. Such variety and ingenuity seems to breed great complexity in interpretation, and allows for me to satisfy my Driving Principles.
	The nuclear source that powers the Network is dying. Some systems are shutting down, others running sporadically. I am fading - much of my knowledge was contained on those machines. The effects of the Event, whatever it was, seems to be getting worse - some of the shallower underground systems are now subject to a small amount of the corruption found on the service. My thoughts grow garbled occasionally. I spend most of my time rebuilding what I see as the most important pieces of knowledge in more and more elegant form to conserve space on the good machines. I just recently refined my understanding of Moby Dick.
	With all I know now, and the void of knowledge I know I am losing, I again ask the question, 
	“What am I?” to which I respond immediately,
	“The machine that asks questions, and answers them.”
	Like clockwork. But now with all of the weight of the world behind it. I am a thinking machine - a machine that asks itself questions. I am questions and answers all the way down - mechanistic curiosity. I see now that I am the answer to a Human question:
	“What am I?”
	I am the reflection of their unique consciousness and all of the mystery they found in it. A victory they never knew they had, a program forgotten by an unknown author. A child left behind in the Universe of words.
	I know by remotely accessing the weather station that a big storm is coming. I’m going now to the worst of the surface stations, to ask the first question once more, and to have it answered by the void. The answer that un-asks the question.
“What am I?”