	An Aztec blood computer. Rivulets run down, crossing to flow together. Summations of a recent sacrifice. The blood runs down and adds up to fill 13 basins that suggested what crops to plant, what wars to wage, and all manner of other decisions. It's a complex latticework of stones. It's composed of arches and grooves in a maze of rock carved in layers and stacked.
	There's a table on the top that basins inward to a pair of drains. Many unfortunate bastards were skewered and left to bleed out. They would have been impaled through the back on a central spike. There's only the mounting hole left now; the spike would have been made of wood, and replaced periodically. A series of cuts would be made on the body to open the major arteries. 
	The network of slits and holes and collectors could let the blood flow along a practical infinity of courses. The machine was meant to be a sort of radio transmitter. It was supposed to link right up to the gods. The blood of a human would well and drip, and the basins would fill and then the readings would be taken. Just as the electricity energizes a cell tower to listen to the resonant babble of humanity, the blood provided the energetic stratum for transmission of the divine word.
	A decoding was deemed necessary. The date of the sacrifice's birth, the gender, the height, the weight; these all were compensated for. The basins contain primitive valves, allowing for the blood to be drained to an identical set of basins directly below at a rate specific to the victim's identifying characteristics. The two layers of basins are arranged in a circle. The bottom layer can be turned independantly of the top layer, causing different basins to align. This would have been done based upon the direction of a shadow cast by the vertical impaling spike. There are four carved holes where poles could be be inserted as handles. Four strong men would man these poles until nightfall, keeping the shadow aligned with a marker on the lower cylinder of basins.
	Having accounted for the variables present in the suns position and the properties of the sacrifice, the mechanism then addresses the date. There are 18 tablets, each with a unique set of channels carved into them reflecting the unique properties of one of the 18 months of the Aztec solar calendar. These tablets were slotted in to a spot below the second cylinder, where another set of drains opened to funnel the blood down into parallel channels, like pipes all congregating at a furnace room, or traces into a microchip on a circuitboard. The tablets served to perform a combination of shifting and combination. One tablet might join the first two channels, pooring the blood from both into the second channel. The third channel might be routed to the fourth, and the fourth combined with the fifth.
	In the end, a third and final set of basins would be filled. These 13 basins contained markings at various levels, indicating specific actions to be taken. Five basins were of a predictive in nature, with the remaining seven specifying the desirable properties of the next sacrifice, as well as how much time should elapse before such a sacrifice should occur.
	From a series of simulations, the prediction of weather and the disposition of neighboring tribes seems to be complete gibberish: random with a slant toward doom and violence. What is interesting, however, is the feedback loop portion of the mechanism. Whether through amazingly dumb luck or equally amazing design, the machine seems to be able to detect trends toward a lack of food in the population and kill off more of the frail accordingly. Based on crop yields estimated per month, it seems to have tended toward increased brutality when there would have been less food.
	From a long-running experiment where pigs blood was run through the blood computer, some of the complex latticework of stone at the top even seems to serve a purpose. It seems to have caught hints in the wind, temperature and humidity as to the fertility of the land. Evaporation, drips blown into different paths, and drying effects seem to effect the frequency of sacrifices based on the percieved viability of crops. When measurements of good weight in relation to other statistics were entered during especially advantageous environmental conditions, the machine quickly decreased its demands for sacrifice.
	It appears that there is no reason that water could not have been used - with some minor adjustments, it likely would have performed exactly the same. However, actually useful functioning of this machine seems to have been to simply continue running. It was a self-regulation system for the population of its tribe. 