Complect

TODO get rid of 'man's'

Chapter 1: Money.

Everything seemed instant and massive. The cloud cover was a grey satin sheet ending just before the horizon, where the sun hummed, just out of sight, like a vast orange alien. It was the kind of day when buildings seem to have just erupted out of the ground fully formed. The monolithic agencies of man and nature enveloped me while I tasted brisk air. I walked down a sidewalk, and I thought about money.
	Money seems at first a material, until the reality of it as paper or zeros and ones renders the actual physicality of it moot. It's just a pattern in reality: a symbol. So maybe it represents raw value, just at one level of indirection. A single dollar is a symbol for so much bread, or so much booze, or whatever minuscule percentage of an aircraft carrier. Fuzzy logic. Every dollar is simultaneously every potential realization of value. So much cheese or so many surface to air missiles.
	I saw Jack up ahead. He was pulling up on his motorcycle. Coming to a stop in the parking lot of the Economist Bar and Grill, he tossed his helmet across the bike's handlebars and spread his arms above his head in an exaggerated stretch. This revealed some of his lean, chiselled form to the girls at a table just inside the front window. He smiled and looked toward me.
	"Dave!" he called. "Nice timing!" 
	I continued forward, acknowledging him with a sort of half-wave while I kept pondering.
	Money breaks down when there's nothing to buy. Value becomes value-less. One million nothings is precisely nothing. So maybe money isn't value: value should endure, and in the form of money it can't. Money loses its infinite potential when there's nothing of immediate value to be had. Debt, however, lives through the bad times along with the good. Holding debt is power, and power is self-perpetuating. Money isn't an infinity of possible substitute values; it's the world of potential debtors.
	If I get a dollar from you, it's the acknowledgement that you've received a dollar from me in some form. You owe me a dollar's worth of something. Maybe, though, your personal contribution of value to the world doesn't interest me: you sell computer software that I don't need, or chocolate-covered ants that I'm allergic to. Fortunately, you can sell your ants to a woman who runs a micro-brew, and she can sell her beer to a kid who mows lawns to pay for college, and I need my lawn mowed. You had an IOU from the world for one dollar of value from the world, and you transferred it to me. Eventually, it got back to you, but it needn't have. The whole system is a fluid that flows to reach an equilibrium.
	I reached Jack with my eyes a little glazed over.
	"How's it going, David?" he clasped my hand and shook it.
	"Hmm..." I mused, "Money - it's just another dimension."
	"What the fuck you talking about, David?" He grinned.
	"Just another dimension. The power hyper-dimension."
	"Hyper-dimension? What the fuck?"
	We walked inside, and he headed for a table near the girls in the window.
	"The topography of power. The obfuscated z-axis on the network map of man. You get yourself down deep in the valleys of the powerful, and the good stuff comes to you. Up on the mountain? You try hold on to something, it just blows into the stratosphere. Eventually it all just settles into the valleys man."
	"Mountains and valleys - what the fuck?" He sat us down one table over from the window girls.
	"Yeah man," I said, gesturing around us. There were bills from all over the world papering the walls, provided by the countless patrons of the place over the hundred odd years of its existence. They were many colours, and mostly tattered and faded.
	"You get one of these bills, it puts you that much deeper into the valleys. The deeper you get, the more the world falls around you for the taking. Everyone above you owes you something, and they'll drop something and it'll slip down and you'll pick it up and they still owe you, man. 
	"I don't owe anyone shit," he said, then coughed. "Shit, I could use a smoke."
	"See, that's the instability of the whole system, man. As long as we all keep agreeing that this debt dimension, this power dimension, that it exists - then having money gives you power." I glanced over to where he was looking, and a couple of the girls were glancing smiles our way and talking to each other in low voices.
	"This have something to do with the money disappearing?" he asked out of the corner of his mouth while he smiled back at them.
	"Guess you could say it inspired me man." I craned my neck a little, looking around for someone who might bring us beers. "We've complicated the debt dimension, man." I waved my hand in front of his face, and gestured at the stock-ticker embedded into the table-top. Blue dots cycled slowly under the plexiglass. "This economy we've built is fucking nuts. Housing bubbles, flash crashes - this is the shit of legend. Deep, mystical lore that no-one understands. Technical wizards build a high-frequency trading dragon-algorithm, and it stays under their control for a time, fucking up their ethereal competitors across an increasingly chaotic landscape of debts. Then the world shifts and cracks as the algorithms band together and rip at the fabric of the universe, and no one knows what the fuck just happened. So the gatekeepers, the stock-exchange, they reset it all and chalk it up to some error or other. You won't lose everything - this time. But, complexity is, like unpredictable."
	"Man, are you fucking high?" he asked absently.
	"No, just locked into the loop! The viscera of feedback." I replied. "How much of this increasingly mysterious and volatile debt dimension do you think people can handle, man? How long can they suspend their disbelief from up there on the barren mountains? Because the peaks of poverty are only getting higher and more perilous."
	"So if money is this debt dimension or whatever," he asked "Then how does money just disappear, go somewhere else? How'd those guys manage to steal all of this debt? Why the fuck would anyone ever honour stolen debt?"
	"That's the beauty of complexity, Jack! So there's this system in place to manage our debts to each other - it's complex. So complex that you can't keep track of the whole thing. Debt can flow through off-shore accounts, into and out of corporations and their subsidiaries, through third-world countries or percolate through launderers. The system is so damn complex it can't even keep track of itself. It's like a great big mind, a tiny universe. You can't keep track of your own mind, because that would involve keeping track of the part keeping track of your mind, which would involve keeping track of the part keeping track of the..." I waved my hand to suggest infinite regress. "You get the idea. So you get to this mind-like complexity: If you muddle up the origins of the debt enough, everyone just forgets where it comes from. Even the system itself. Think about it man. The stuff you know, do you remember where you learned all of it? No way. It's just there, sitting in your brain for use. Debt's the same way. Move it around enough, mix it up with enough other things, and no one remembers how you got it. Even if it's stolen."
	"Fuck you're high," he sighed. "Hold on a sec." He moved across to the table of the girls. A moment later, the two that were looking over at us came back to our table with him.
	Jack is a wizard.
	The girls, according to Jack, were Kaylee and Natalia. I rose to clasp each of their hands.
	"I'm David." Kaylee sat down opposite to me.
	"So, David," she inquired with a half smile, "like, what's up?" Natalia and Jack seemed to have settled right back in to a conversation started at the other table, so I decided to ignore them.
	"Well... not much." I replied. "I just finished drinking beers up on the top of the Centre Bridge. I'm a ten-thousand year old corporate security consultant who throws his empties in the river."
	Kaylee propped her chin up on her hand. Her shirt slipped down her forearm, and I glimpsed the fringe of an internal sleeve of tattoos.
	"So you get paid to sort of, wander around inside companies and tell them..." she waved her hand lazily, "how fucked they are?"
	"Yep." I said, leaning back a little, "Then I try to give them some advice, protocols, restructuring, whatever," I propped my self back on the back legs of the chair, "to unfuck themselves. To the extent that they can." I settled back on to four legs. "Big companies don't change easily." She folder her other hand under her chin, revealing more tattoos.
	"I bet they're pretty good with the whole 'protocol' part - corporations eat that shit up." I laughed.
	"Fuck yeah," I said, leaning over my folded hands to mirror her posture. "Anything you can stick in a memo and post on a company-wide mailing list."
	"Attention all employees of MegaCorp inc." she looked through a sheet of imaginary paper held at eye-level and slightly to the right. "Please stop giving away the vault access codes to random callers. Signed, Bosses." She made a flourish in the air - a loopy, managerial signature.
	I sighed. "It's closer to that than you'd think. Unfortunately, good security isn't a set of rules as much as it is a culture. People have to live and breath it. And I'm not sure that building such a culture is even worth it for most companies. Probably cheaper to just get fucked now and then, rather than live in fear."
	"Probably." She made a mock-serious face. We looked at each other for a moment.
	"So, Kaylee," I asked with a wry smile, "like, what's up?"
	"Meh," she replied, shrugging with exaggerated dejection. "I do statistical analysis for prospecting companies. Got some math degrees, mostly use them to make, like... bar-graphs about big oil datasets. Been thinking about getting into the finance thing - quantitative analysis."
	"Ah," I said, "You want to be a quant when you grow up."
	"Something like that. Fuck my mortal soul - I'll buy a new one."
	"And dry your tears with fat stack of cash." I replied, drawing a single tear down my cheek with my finger.
	"Hey - it's surprisingly absorptive," she laughed.
	"Well, at least one of us has our priorities straight." I stretched, putting my hands behind my head.
	"Yeah," she replied in a baby voice "and here you are, just making pennies looking out for those poor little companies, all lost and alone in the big scary corporate world."
	It was my turn to laugh. "I guess I do alright. But hey, if I'm not looking out for them, who will? They sure can't take care of themselves. It's sort of a large scale blind-spot. Something about being part of these systems makes you incapable of reasoning about how they work."
	Kaylee sighed. "Yeah... sometimes organizational stupidity is a little overwhelming. One branch of our company has this awesome software pipeline for taking survey readings right from the instruments and putting them in a database and analyzing them literally with one click. That's the stuff I work on - I do the math bit of the analysis. Then there's this other branch over in Europe. And they're like 'Oh no - we don't need that - we have this fucking monster spreadsheet and it's gods fucking gift to the world. It's magic and it is our child and it will live on into eternity.' And it's this dumb piece of shit that requires several employees to just manage, with all kinds of little scripts tacked on to it by idiots over years."
	"You sound a little bitter." I pointed out.
	She laughed. "I guess I do. Fucking spreadsheets..."
	"Hey, they make the world go round. There's a certain subset of people that, deprived of their number shuffling, might go out and do some real world damage."
	"Sometimes I imagine we could put them in camps or something," she said. "Subject them to some, like, conditioning."
	I extended my arm at a forty-five. "Mein Fuhrer."
	She laughed and slapped my arm down, rolling her eyes. "Godwin's law strikes again."
	"Who is this Godwin fellow?" I asked.
	"I dunno, like, some guy." She grinned and said, "He said something like 'As a discussion lengthens, the probability of a comparison involving Hitler approaches 1'".
	"Hmm, sounds apt," I replied. "Though I think your mention of camps more than provoked it."
	"Maybe." she stuck out her tongue a little and then smiled.
	Some beers showed up at the table. The four of us divided them up, and I raised my glass. 
	"To easy money."
	"Here here." said Jack. We drank. He put down his glass and continued "Speaking of which, I've gotta tell you about my new startup, David!"
	"Oh yeah?"
	"Yeah dawg." He slapped both of his hands flat on the table. "Alright, get this. I was reading something recently about a guy who did a study on milkshakes. McDonalds wanted to give their milkshakes some kind of update, upgrade, whatever." Jack has a tendency to talk fast. "So at first everyone's just thinking about the milkshake from a quality point of view. 'How can we make it tastier? Chunks? More flavours? Thicker? Thinner? Or maybe it should be cheaper?' So anyway, this one guy figures that, rather than just imagining what would make the milkshake better for him, he's going to watch people buy milkshakes all day and figure out what they want from a milkshake. He watches all of these people buying milkshakes - basically all day long for, well, a damn long time. And he's seeing that almost half of milkshakes are getting bought in the morning! And basically all of the customers are on their own, and they're getting them to go. This, obviously, is not what he expected. So he interviews a bunch of them. Turns out these people are buying the milkshake for their commute! Milkshakes, it turns out, are a great long-drive-to-work food. They're all nice and contained and shit. You can hold 'em in one hand, and they just deliver comfortable, spill-resistant calories up through the straw and straight into the morning-addled brain! You imagine your hamburger, your taco, your pizza slice - these things are going to get ketchup all over your work clothes and lettuce on the seat between your legs and cheese grease on the steering wheel and mayonnaise on the shifter. Heaven forbid you have something like fries with dipping involved - you dip a fry, send a text message, and then careen off the edge of an overpass to cause a 47 car pile-up that'll go on to change auto-safety laws! The other reason these milkshakes are great, is that they're something to fucking do. These people he interviewed, they typically had decently long commutes. They were bored. The milkshakes made them feel all good from fat and sugar, and gave them a fucking task to accomplish. A good thick milkshake is a fucking pass-time in our great nation! So anyway, it becomes a fair bit more obvious how to improve the things. Make them thicker! Make it a goddamn project to finnish the bastards off! And throw some chunks of whatever little fruit and chocolate and giblets of all variety to liven up the experience. See, they figured out what people had make milkshakes into, rather than what they'd intended for milkshakes. McDonalds had made a desert, but people were buying a commuter breakfast." I cut in, fearing he might collapse if I didn't a chance to breath.
	"So you're going to sell milkshakes for breakfast?"
	"Not exactly. So I think they should have taken it a step farther. They just improved an existing, but not necessarily ideal product, to fill a market that people made up on their own. This, David, Natalia, and uh... Kaylee," he said, point at each of us in turn and hesitating on Kaylee before recollecting her name, "is a fucking opportunity! The people have spoken, and they want a fucking breakfast food that's designed with the morning commute in mind! Car-friendly fast food! So I figure the thick liquid in a throw-away container is a win, obviously. I'm not going to fuck with that aspect of it. See, the interviewer guy, he talked to people about other foods, but most other stuff ends up being too small and sticky and unsatisfying, like say a banana, or two boring and crummy, like a bagel. When you think about it, it's difficult to come up with a large serving-size food that doesn't fall apart or have a gooey peel or something. You get to large, and the item either is going to come apart, like a burger, or just be fucking boring, like eating a loaf of bread. The mass of these large food bodies cause them to destroy themselves. The milkshake is beautiful, because the rigid container can be made light-weight and ergonomic, and because the straw allows for the consumption point and posture to be consistent throughout the whole meal! You don't have to tilt it back, and you don't have to try to hold on to something that's constantly shrinking and increasingly awkward. It's this consistent operation that is a cool light of calm and satisfaction in the dark-ass bullshit of the wee morning hours. So here's my theory: Make it healthy, and make it even more convenient. First, health. These bastards should be delicious fruit and vegetable smoothies. Options like flax seed and spinach for your typical health nut. For fitness enthusiasts such as myself, we'll have whey protein, glutamine, creatine - all the good stuff. At a premium, of course." Kaylee added,
	"Hey, this sounds pretty rad - you should have some clearly labelled vegan options! Then you can cater to new-age weirdos like me."
	"Got it covered - totally looking out for dietary needs of the new-age weirdo. So anyway, we keep these things thick and satisfying, try to hold to the ideal found in the study. The other thing we try to beat the traditional milkshake on is convenience. Now most healthy shake type foods seem to set up primarily in malls for whatever reason. I personally don't know of a drive-through juice-joint. We, however, are going to go significantly above and beyond the drive-through. Picture this." He got a far off look in his eyes, and mimed a carefree driving pose, with one hand on the top of the wheel and the other arm sprawled across an open window. "You get into your car, and push a button on your smart-phone. One button, for one of your up-to-five customized personal favourite shakes. Just one click. Five minutes later, there's a sound in the air. A light buzzing. It gets louder, and louder, and there! A wireless drone intercepts your car, and paces you by your open drivers-side window. You reach out and just effortlessly pluck your order right out of the air. You've already been charged through your phone - that's it! That's the end of the transaction. And now for the next half-our of shitty down-town traffic you're just calmly enjoying your healthy, delicious smoothy - and you basically will have taken zero time out of your day to get it." I considered for a moment.
	"Hmm... what kind of drones will you use? Quadcopters, I assume?" Quadcopters are essentially just four vertical blades mounted on an X shaped body. They control their flight exclusively through varying the speeds of the independent rotors, so they're pretty cheap to build. Since the advent of small, cheap computers, it's been possible to build stable quadcopters for very cheap. Prior to computer stabilization, Quadcopters aren't very practical - controlling four independent rotors manually is a little to hard for most people.
	"Yep." Jack said happily. "We're already in talks with some people from china about their production - we've figured out what load they'll be carrying and everything, and we've got a working prototype. Still sorting out some of the design issues."
	"How are you going to get enough range out of them? From what I recall, battery powered flight beyond about fifteen minutes is pretty unheard of." Jack's eyes lit up.
	"Ah, man, this part you'll be totally in to. We've got this kid, a real whiz. He's figuring out how to route a system of trucks that act as food-prep and drone stations. We won't actually have a retail location - just warehouses. This kid, Brian's his name, he's working on this machine-learning system that'll figure out the optimal truck placements over time, whether they should move, and so on. Brian's algorithm will sort through where everyone's requests are coming from (from the GPS locations sent by the customers phones), and sort out where exactly to put the trucks at any given moment to reduce flight-times as much as possible. We figure that with a reasonable number of flights we can keep average flight times well below 10 minutes. When you think about it, ten minutes is a pretty long time as the crow flies." I played out the logistics in my head a little.
	"You know... it might just be crazy enough to work."
	"Yeah man." He found his glass was empty. "Fuck it! Another round!" he yelled, waving at the waitress.
	The girls exchanged suppressed smiles, obviously amused by his rising excitement.
	"Anyway, if any of you are interested in being involved in some way..." I laughed.
	"Jack, you know I'm always broke - I typically don't pick up another consulting job until I'm done drinking my last paycheque." I decided didn't mind saying this in front of Kaylee, even though I found myself liking her. I guessed that she wasn't exactly looking for a stable, stand up kind of guy to go with her tattoos and anti-establishment grumblings.
	"Hey, I know, I know," He said, raising his arms in defence. "We've already raised almost half a million in a first round."
	"Damn," I said. "Someone else thinks it's crazy enough to work too, hey?"
	"Yep!" he grinned. "Angel by the name of Frank Wilcox. Made a small fortune in a new kind of extra absorbent tampon a long while ago, then a larger one pioneering some of that throwaway electric toothbrush stuff. Now he's rich enough to get into some weirder, riskier ventures. Good guy!"
	"In case either of you girls aren't familiar," I said to them, "An 'angel' is a technical term for a single rich guy slash gall who make solo investments in startups."
	"Oh, I know," said Natalia with a wry smile.
	Jack is also a shark. 
	He turned to look at her a little to quickly.
	"Oh? What's your, uh, situation?" She paused for a moment, inspecting the fingernails on her right hand.
	"I've made a little money here and there, spent a little here and there." Then silence. Jack waited as patiently as he could, and I could see the molecules of his body vibrating faster and faster. He almost didn't blurt out
	"In what industry?" One word from her, along with a twitch of a smile:
	"Cosmetics."
	He could see she was playing with him, and decided to forgo more polite forms of conversation in favour of simple interrogation.
	"Specifically what companies and products?" he thought for a moment and then added, "Milady."
	She laughed then. "I don't know if I want to tell you. I prefer anonymity.
	"C'mon," he mock-pleaded. "I won't tell anyone - your secret's safe with me!"
	"I suppose it might not hurt - and you did just buy me another beer. Alright. Have you heard of Ivanova beauty products?"
	"Yeah! he said eagerly. Fairly new Russian cosmetics company that popularized 'energizing' creams and such? Caffeine infused moisturizers and taurine eye-shadow? Stuff makes a killing online. Sites pandering to the geek community sell a ton of the stuff."
	"I'm Natalya Ivanova."
	"Holy shit!" He exclaimed. "Very cool!"
	"Yes, it has been." She admitted. Jack overcame his surprise quickly, settling back in to his sales-pitch fervour.
	"So, looking to get in to new ventures? I think we really might have something. It's a fresh new market!" She laughed again, bright and musical.
	"I'll think about it."
	He looked about to prod her a little more, then thought better of it. He looked at all three of us.
	"Anyway, if either of you has any interest in some sort of involvement, let me know! There's always equity to go around. Kaylee, I heard you mention a mathematical background - we might need help with the quadcopter flight planning. Brian's pretty tangled up in the truck route optimization thing right now." Kaylee nodded, humouring him. He looked at me, grinning slyly. "And Jack, if you want to do some work on the ordering servers, the payment processing, make it all secure and scalable to millions of users and such..." I sighed in mock-exasperation, then laughed.
	"You know I'm too laid back to be working for pennies for the slight chance to make it big."
	"David, David," he chided "where are your dreams?" he continued earnestly "Anyway, if any of you knows anyone, or you know, if you run a mailing list of people that might want to know about this, or a blog, or-"
	"Yeah yeah," I said, cutting him off. "I'm sure we'll all be shills for you, given the opportunity." We all laughed then.
	"Alright, alright," he conceded. "Enough business. From the looks of your glasses, you'd all better get drinking. You've some catching up to do!" I saw that he was right, and we drank.